what is spring-boot-starter-parent?
when you are building a project, in your pom.xml file you inherits the spring-boot-starter-parent 
and it is a .xml file that represents the parent pom of your current project and it includes BOM (Bill of Material) file 
which is called spring-boot-dependencies and it includes the versions of dependencies that you will use in your current project.
also the parent POM includs the configurations of  java compiler and UTF source encoding.


what is the spring boot application?
it is an application that is build using springboot framework which is an enhancement or a framework that is 
built on the springcore framework for enterprise level applications.
enhancements includes pre-configured settings and automatic configurations.


what is the difference between jar and war?
both of are application packaging format but 
1. .jar file : contains all the application with its all configurations and dependencies and also 
an embedded application Server (likely tomcat) that our spring boot application runs on it direclty without the need to deploy it on an external application server.
2. .war file : contains all the application with its all configurations and dependencies but it needs an application server to run 
    our spring boot application on it.


what is the meaning of <scope>provided</scope> of a dependency?
provided:
Dependencies are needed at compile time but are provided by the runtime environment (e.g., a servlet API in a web container like Tomcat).
It is not included in the final build artifact (JAR, WAR, etc.), as it is assumed to be present in the runtime environment.


what is the meaning of @springbootapplication annotation that we put it on the main class?
it is a composite annotation that contains inside it three annotations:
1. @configuration : we put it on the class to declare that this class can be used by the spring IOC container as a source of bean definitions. you can define beans in this class
2. @EnableAutoConfiguration : instructs the spring boot to configure the application based on the dependencies on the classpath
3. @ComponentScan : scan the beans, find them and register them.


what is the meaning of a componenet in my application is in the classpath?
the classpath refers to the location that the java runtime looks for compiled classes and resources 
needed to run the application.


what is @RestController?
we use it on the class name to to make this class a web service which means its methods 
responds to the http requests with response body.

what is the meaning of exposing the endpoint?
to make it remotly accessible over http.

when the endpoint becomes available?
when the endpoint is configured to be both enabled and exposed 

